54l attestation service (#29777)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/tfm/provisioning_image/README.rst

When built for the ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp`` board target, this image by default also includes the :ref:`provisioning_image_net_core` sample as an image for the network core (``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpunet`` board target).
The image demonstrates how to disable the debugging access on the network core by writing to the ``UICR.APPROTECT`` register.

.. _provisioning_image_workflow:

Relationship to the TF-M application
************************************

Provisioning is a one-time operation that must be completed before a TF-M application (such as :ref:`tfm_psa_template`) runs for the first time.
It generates and stores the device-unique key material (on nRF54L Series devices, the CRACEN IKG seed) and advances the PSA security lifecycle state from **Device Assembly and Test** to **PRoT Provisioning**.

> Because this step generates secret key material and permanently changes the lifecycle state, it is delivered as a dedicated image rather than being built into the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this step generates secret key material and permanently changes the lifecycle state, it is delivered as a dedicated image rather than built into the application.
```

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The sample requires :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key`, and on nRF5340 and nRF91x also
:ref:`lib_identity_key`. On nRF54L no separate identity key is stored; the IAK

> is sourced from CRACEN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample requires :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key`.
On nRF5340 and nRF91x Series devices, it also requires :ref:`lib_identity_key`.

On nRF54L Series devices, no separate identity key is stored.
The IAK is sourced from CRACEN.
```

.. note::

>    Once the device is provisioned, the OTP must not be erased (for example, by ``ERASEALL``), as this will erase the provisioned keys and lifecycle state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   After provisioning, do not erase the OTP (for example, by using ``ERASEALL``).
Erasing the OTP removes the provisioned keys and lifecycle state.
```

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The sample requires :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key`.
On nRF5340 and nRF91x Series devices, it also requires :ref:`lib_identity_key`.

On nRF54L Series devices, no separate identity key is stored.

> The IAK is sourced from CRACEN.

Reviewer: Generated by the CRACEN IKG?

1. The device is verified to be in the Device Assembly and Test state.
#. The device is transitioned to the PRoT Provisioning state.
#. Hardware unique key (HUK) material is provisioned:

>    * On nRF5340 and nRF91x, random MKEK and MEXT keys are generated and stored in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * On nRF5340 and nRF91x Series devices, random MKEK and MEXT keys are generated and stored in the key management unit (KMU).
```

>      key management unit (KMU).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   * On nRF54L, a random IKG seed is written to CRACEN KMU slots 183-185. MKEK, MEXT
     and other HUK-derived keys are not stored; they are derived on demand by CRACEN

>      IKG from the seed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * On nRF54L Series devices, the system writes a random IKG seed to CRACEN KMU slots 183–185.
  MKEK, MEXT, and other HUK-derived keys are not stored.
  Instead, CRACEN IKG derives these keys on demand from the seed.
```

#. On nRF5340 and nRF91x only: a random secp256r1 identity key is generated and stored in
   the KMU (encrypted with the MKEK) and used as the Initial Attestation Key (IAK).
   On nRF54L the IAK is sourced from the CRACEN IKG identity key; no separate identity

>    key is written.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. On nRF5340 and nRF91x Series devices, the system generates a random secp256r1 identity key.
   The system stores this key in the KMU, encrypted with the MKEK, and uses it as the Initial Attestation Key (IAK).

   On nRF54L Series devices, the IAK is sourced from the CRACEN IKG identity key.
   The system does not write a separate identity key.
```

#. The implementation ID is written to OTP.

On nRF54L, b0 (NSIB) validates firmware against a key in CRACEN KMU rather than in the OTP
PROVISION region used on nRF5340. The sysbuild generates a ``keyfile.json`` that
``west flash --recover`` uses with ``nrfutil device x-provision-keys`` to write the NSIB

> Ed25519 public key to KMU slot 242 before b0 first runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On nRF54L Series devices, |NSIB| (NSIB, also called b0) validates firmware against a key stored in the CRACEN KMU, rather than in the OTP PROVISION region used on nRF5340.

The sysbuild generates a ``keyfile.json`` file.
The ``west flash --recover`` command uses this file with ``nrfutil device x-provision-keys`` to write the NSIB Ed25519 public key to KMU slot 242 before b0 runs for the first time.
```

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

On nRF54L, use ``west flash --recover`` so the sysbuild-generated
``keyfile.json`` is applied. The shared sample key under

> :file:`samples/tfm/common/keys/` is used by default:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On nRF54L Series devices, use ``west flash --recover`` to apply the sysbuild-generated ``keyfile.json``.
By default, the shared sample key in :file:`samples/tfm/common/keys/` is used:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp nrf/samples/tfm/provisioning_image -d build_provisioning_image
   west flash --recover -d build_provisioning_image

To use a different NSIB signing key, pass it with ``-DNSIB_KEY_FILE=<pem>``
and set :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT_SIGNING_KEY_FILE` to the same
key when building ``tfm_psa_template``. Otherwise b0 will reject MCUboot with

> error ``-102`` (``ESIGINV``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use a different NSIB signing key, pass it with ``-DNSIB_KEY_FILE=<pem>``.
Set :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT_SIGNING_KEY_FILE` to the same key when you build ``tfm_psa_template``.

If the keys do not match, b0 rejects MCUboot with error ``-102`` (``ESIGINV``).
```

Testing
=======

> After programming the sample, the following output is displayed in the console on nRF5340 and nRF91x:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After programming the sample, the following output is displayed in the console on nRF5340 and nRF91x Series devices:
```

    Writing the identity key to KMU
    Success!

> On nRF54L series, the identity key step is omitted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On nRF54L Series devices, the identity key step is omitted:
```

.. code-block:: console

    Successfully verified PSA lifecycle state ASSEMBLY!
    Successfully switched to PSA lifecycle state PROVISIONING!
    Generating random HUK keys (including MKEK)
    Success!

If an error occurs, the sample logs a ``Failure: ...`` message describing the failed step and stops without printing ``Success!``.

.. note::
   The device cannot transition from **PRoT Provisioning** back to
   **Device Assembly and Test**. To re-run the sample, reset the OTP with
   ``west flash --erase`` (nRF5340 and nRF91x) or ``west flash --recover``
   (nRF54L). Both wipe all provisioned keys, so the full sequence must be

>    repeated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The device cannot transition from *PRoT Provisioning* back to *Device Assembly and Test*.

   To run the sample again, reset the OTP by using ``west flash --erase`` (nRF5340 and nRF91x Series) or ``west flash --recover`` (nRF54L Series).
   Both operations wipe all provisioned keys, so you must repeat the full sequence.
```
